[docs] Interoperability guide updates (#23030)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/guides/interoperability/interoperability.md

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponents.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

[![Edit Button](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/plain-css-1k9wb)

> **PlainCssSlider.css**

Author: I don't understand the question but the same name is used in both the markdown as well as the codesandbox :)

> **PlainCssSlider.css**

Reviewer: I was raising the difference between Css vs. CSS. I think that we use the former convention in the codebase.

> **PlainCssSlider.css**

Author: Can we use what we had previosly `Css`? Don't have preference, if I used different name is probably a mistake. Will ensure now that the codesandboxes follow the same convention

> **PlainCssSlider.css**

Author: Updated all codensadboxes

> **PlainCssSlider.css**

Reviewer: Ok, `Css` sounds great!

```css
.slider {
  color: #20b2aa;
}
.slider:hover {
  color: #2e8b57;
}
```

**PlainCssSlider.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import './PlainCssSlider.css';

> export default function PlainCSSSlider() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default function PlainCssSlider() {
```

  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <Slider className="slider" defaultValue={30} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Controlling priority ⚠️

> **Note:** Most of the CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order, as in the demo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Most of the CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the document `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order, as in the demo:
```
```suggestion
**Note:** Most of the CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the html `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order, as in the demo:
```

> **Note:** Most of the CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order, as in the demo:

Author: Yep, rephrases the ending with this: 

> Here is a demo of how it can be done for our default styled engine (emotion):

Let me know if it is better now

> **Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the html `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here is a demo of how it can be done for our default styled engine - emotion:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done for the default style engine - emotion:
```

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { CacheProvider } from '@emotion/core';
import createCache from '@emotion/cache';

const head = document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0];

const emotionContainer = head.insertBefore(
  document.createElement('STYLE'),
  head.firstChild,
);

const cache = createCache({
  container: emotionContainer,
});

> export default function App() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default function PlainCssPriority() {
```

  return (
    <CacheProvider value={cache}>
      {/* Your component tree. Now you can override Material-UI's styles. */}
    </CacheProvider>
  );

> }

Author: @Andarist is there a better API for specifying that emotion needs to be the first element in the `head`?

Reviewer 3: In the upcoming v11 (we have already released RC version) there is an additional `prepend` option that you could use.

Author: Awesome, I already have a branch testing the RC, will add a reminder there to update this guide when we upgrade 👍

Author: Thanks for taking a look btw :)

```

### Deeper elements

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

> However, the thumb is not the root element of Slider and therefore customization as above will not work.

Author: > I think that we should say that developers need to increase the specificity to 2 and the style of the author needs to do as well. I think that they will understand the logic of "is not the root hence won't work". I think that its more that we write the style a specific way that they need to account for.

Will change the docs a bit around this 👍 

> I think that we will also need to tech developers that the nesting changes if the element is portal. So we probably want a new portal section.

I'd like to wait till we have implementation of this before I update the portal. Would that be ok?

> However, the thumb is not the root element of Slider and therefore customization as above will not work.

Author: I've restructured a bit this section, please have another look.

> However, the thumb is not the root element of Slider and therefore customization as above will not work.

Reviewer: Ok, should we add the header and a WIP comment in the structure of the markdown so we remember about it?

> However, the thumb is not the root element of Slider and therefore customization as above will not work.

Author: Done

> In Material-UI, all child elements have increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, the author need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need
```

> You need to use the `componentProps` API of Material-UI, in order to provide custom classNames for the slots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to use the `componentProps` API of Material-UI, in order to provide custom class names for the slots.
```

> You need to use the `componentProps` API of Material-UI, in order to provide custom classNames for the slots.

Author: I've restructured a bit this section, please have another look.

> to do the same. In order to provide custom class names for the slots, you need to use the `componentProps` API of Material-UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to do the same. In order to provide custom class names, you need to use the `componentProps` API.
```

The following example overrides the `thumb` style of `Slider` in addition to the custom styles on the slider itself.

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponentsDeep.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

**PlainCssSliderDeep.css**

```css
.slider {
  color: #20b2aa;
}
.slider:hover {
  color: #2e8b57;
}
.slider .thumb {
  border-radius: 30%;
}
```

**PlainCssSliderDeep.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import './PlainCssSliderDeep.css';

> export default function PlainCSSSlider() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default function PlainCssSliderDeep() {
```

  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <Slider defaultValue={30} className="slider" />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### CSS injection order ⚠️

> **Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`, which make Material-UI take precedence over your `<style>`. To remove the need for **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done for the default style engine - emotion:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`, which gives Material-UI precedence over your custom styles. To remove the need for **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done for the default style engine - emotion:
```

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

> In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2: `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.
```
?

Explicitly providing the class names to the component is too much effort?
[You can target the class names generated by Material-UI](/styles/advanced/#with-material-ui-core).

[![Edit Button](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/global-classnames-mc4wl)

**GlobalCssSlider.css**

```css
.MuiSlider-root {
  color: #20b2aa;
}
.MuiSlider-root:hover {
  color: #2e8b57;
}
.MuiSlider-root .MuiSlider-thumb {
  border-radius: 30%;
}
```

**GlobalCssButton.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import './GlobalCssSlider.css';

> export default function GlobalCSSSlider() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default function GlobalCssSlider() {
```

  return <Slider defaultValue={30} />;
}
```

## Styled Components

![stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/styled-components/styled-components.svg?style=social&label=Star)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/styled-components.svg?)

> By default the Material-UI components, comes with emotion as their style engine. However,

Reviewer: I would give this part a dedicated section, it's key

```suggestion
### Change the default styled engine

By default the Material-UI components, comes with emotion as their style engine. However,
```

> if you would like to use `styled-components`, you can configure your app, by following this [example project](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/blob/next/examples/create-react-app-with-styled-components/README.md).

Reviewer: So we can easily jump in the source (see the files & markdown at the same time)

```suggestion
if you would like to use `styled-components`, you can configure your app, by following this [example project](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/blob/next/examples/create-react-app-with-styled-components).
```

Reviewer: Later on, I think that we will need to have a proper documentation page for the switch between the two engines, once we have something stable.

Author: Agree 👍

After the style engine is configured properly, you can use the `experimentalStyled()` utility
from `@material-ui/core/styles` and have direct access to the theme.

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponents.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

[![Edit Button](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/styled-components-6bwu7)

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import { experimentalStyled as styled } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const CustomizedSlider = styled(Slider)`
  color: #20b2aa;
  :hover {
    color: #2e8b57;
  }
`;

> export default function App() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default function StyledComponents() {
```

  return <CustomizedSlider defaultValue={30} />;
}
```

### Deeper elements

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.
However, the thumb is not the root element of Slider and therefore styled-components customization as above will not work.
You need to use the `componentProps` API of Material-UI, in order to provide custom classNames for the slots.

> 

Author: I've restructured a bit this section, please have another look.

The following example overrides the `thumb` style of `Slider` in addition to the custom styles on the slider itself.

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponentsDeep.js"}}

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import { experimentalStyled as styled } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const CustomizedSliderDeep = styled(Slider)`
  color: #20b2aa;
  :hover {
    color: #2e8b57;
  }
  & .MuiSlider-thumb {
    border-radius: 30%;
  }
`;

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <CustomizedSliderDeep defaultValue={30} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

> The above demo relies on the [default `className` values](/styles/advanced/#with-material-ui-core) but you can provide your own class name: `.thumb`.

Reviewer: The demo is missing the logic to wire the `thumb`.

Explicitly providing the class names to the component is too much effort?
[You can target the class names generated by Material-UI](/styles/advanced/#with-material-ui-core).

[![Edit Button](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/global-classnames-mc4wl)

**GlobalCssSlider.css**

```css
.MuiSlider-root {
  color: #20b2aa;
}
.MuiSlider-root:hover {
  color: #2e8b57;
}
```

**GlobalCssSlider.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import './GlobalCssSlider.css';

export default function GlobalCssSlider() {
  return <Slider defaultValue={30} />;
}
```

### Controlling priority ⚠️

> **Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the html `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here is a demo of how it can be done for our default styled engine - emotion:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done for the default styled engine - emotion:
```

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { CacheProvider } from '@emotion/core';
import createCache from '@emotion/cache';

const head = document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0];

const emotionContainer = head.insertBefore(
  document.createElement('STYLE'),
  head.firstChild,
);

const cache = createCache({
  container: emotionContainer,
});

export default function PlainCssPriority() {
  return (
    <CacheProvider value={cache}>
      {/* Your component tree. Now you can override Material-UI's styles. */}
    </CacheProvider>
  );
}
```

### Deeper elements

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

> In Material-UI, all child elements have increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, the author need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need
```

to do the same.

The following example overrides the `MuiSlider-thumb` style of `Slider` in addition to the custom styles on the slider itself.

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponentsDeep.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

**GlobalCssSliderDeep.css**

```css
.MuiSlider-root {
  color: #20b2aa;
}
.MuiSlider-root:hover {
  color: #2e8b57;
}
.MuiSlider-root .MuiSlider-thumb {
  border-radius: 1px;
}
```

**GlobalCssSliderDeep.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import './GlobalCssSliderDeep.css';

export default function GlobalCssSlider() {
  return <Slider defaultValue={30} />;
}
```

## Styled Components

![stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/styled-components/styled-components.svg?style=social&label=Star)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/styled-components.svg?)

### Change the default styled engine

> By default the Material-UI components come with emotion as their style engine. If 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Material-UI components come with emotion as their style engine. If,
```

however, you would like to use `styled-components`, you can configure your app by following this [example project](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/blob/next/examples/create-react-app-with-styled-components).

After the style engine is configured properly, you can use the `experimentalStyled()` utility
from `@material-ui/core/styles` and have direct access to the theme.

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponents.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

[![Edit Button](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/styled-components-6bwu7)

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
import { experimentalStyled as styled } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

const CustomizedSlider = styled(Slider)`
  color: #20b2aa;
  :hover {
    color: #2e8b57;
  }
`;

export default function StyledComponents() {
  return <CustomizedSlider defaultValue={30} />;
}
```

### Deeper elements

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

> In Material-UI, all child elements have increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, the author need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need
```

}
```

### CSS injection order ⚠️

> **Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`, which make Material-UI take precedence over your `<style>`. To remove the need to mark your style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done for the default style engine - emotion:

Reviewer 2: Should this be made consistent with the preceding version?

Author: Yep, updated all "CSS injection order" sections to match the new one

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

> In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2: `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.
```
?

> Material-UI has a rich theme structure that you can leverage for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Material-UI has a rich theme structure that you can take advantage of for
```

> the color manipulations, the transitions, the media queries, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
color manipulations, transitions, media queries, and more.
```

> By using the Material-UI's Provider, the theme will be available for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using the Material-UI ThemeProvider, the theme will be available using
```

> context as well (emotion or styled-components, depending on your configuraiton).

Author: > By using the Material-UI's Provider, the theme will be available for the context of the styled engine too (emotion or styled-components, depending on your configuration).

Maybe this is more clear?

> context as well (emotion or styled-components, depending on your configuraiton).

Reviewer 2: Ah, right. I understand now. Yes, that's better. ("style engine" though, right?)

Also , either "the Material-UI theme provider", or "Material-UI's theme provider", rather than both "the" and "'s".

> context as well (emotion or styled-components, depending on your configuraiton).

Author: Changed 👍

> We encourage to share the same theme object between Material-UI and your styles.

Reviewer: I think that it would be great to cover the case where there is a conflict of theme structure between styled-components and Material-UI. I think that it's important for progressive adoption.

Author: You mean specifying that whatever `ThemeProvider` will be last, `styled-components`' or `Material-UI`'s that one will win?

Reviewer: I was thinking of being very specific. "If you are already using a custom theme with styled-components or emotion, it might not be compatible with Material-UI. In these cases, you need to render the Material-UI's ThemeProvider **first**. This will ensure the theme structures are isolated. This is ideal for the progressive adoption of Material-UI's components"

Author: Got ya, adding it

Author: Done

> We encourage to share the same theme object between Material-UI and your styles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are encouraged to share the same theme object between Material-UI and your styles.
```

### Change the default styled engine

> By default, Material-UI components come with emotion as their style engine. If,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Material-UI components come with emotion as its style engine. If,
```

Author: "components" it's plural I think their is correct.

Reviewer 2: Quite right. Must have read it too quickly!

> however, you would like to use `styled-components`, you are encouraged to configure your app by following this [example project](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/blob/next/examples/create-react-app-with-styled-components).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
however, you would like to use `styled-components`, you are can configure your app by following this [example project](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/blob/next/examples/create-react-app-with-styled-components).
```

> Following the previous approach reduces the bundle size and removes the need to configure the CSS injection order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following this approach reduces the bundle size, and removes the need to configure the CSS injection order.
```

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

> In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2: `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.
```
?

      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <CustomizedSlider defaultValue={30} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

The above demo relies on the [default `className` values](/styles/advanced/#with-material-ui-core), but you can provide your own class name with the `componentsProps` API.

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { experimentalStyled as styled } from '@material-ui/core/styles';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';

const CustomizedSlider = styled((props) => (
  <Slider componentsProps={{ thumb: { className: 'thumb' } }} {...props} />
))`
  color: #20b2aa;

  :hover {
    color: #2e8b57;
  }

  & .thumb {
    border-radius: 1px;
  }
`;

export default function StyledComponentsDeep2() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <CustomizedSlider defaultValue={30} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Theme

By using the Material-UI theme provider, the theme will be available in the theme context
of the styled engine too (emotion or styled-components, depending on your configuration).

> ⚠️ If you are **already** using a custom theme with styled-components or emotion,
> it might not be compatible with Material-UI's theme specification. If it's not

> > compatible, you need to render the Material-UI's ThemeProvider <b>first</b>. This will

Reviewer 2: Pick one:
```suggestion
> compatible, you need to render Material-UI's ThemeProvider <b>first</b>. This will
```
```suggestion
> compatible, you need to render Material-UI's ThemeProvider <b>first</b>. This will
```

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponents.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

[![Edit Button](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/css-modules-pkm9l)

**CssModulesSlider.module.css**

```css
.slider {
  color: #20b2aa;
}

> .slider:hover {

Reviewer: Per #22976?

```suggestion

.slider:hover {
```

  color: #2e8b57;
}
```

> **CssModulesButton.js**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**CssModulesSlider.js**
```

```jsx
import React from 'react';
// webpack, parcel or else will inject the CSS into the page
import styles from './CssModulesSlider.module.css';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';

> export default function PlainCSSSlider() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default function CssModulesSlider() {
```

  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <Slider className={styles.slider} defaultValue={30} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Controlling priority ⚠️

> **Note:** Most of the CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order, as in the demo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the document `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order, as in the demo:
```
```suggestion
**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`. If you don't want to mark style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order, as in the demo:
```

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { CacheProvider } from '@emotion/core';
import createCache from '@emotion/cache';

const head = document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0];

const emotionContainer = head.insertBefore(
  document.createElement('STYLE'),
  head.firstChild,
);

const cache = createCache({
  container: emotionContainer,
});

export default function App() {
  return (
    <CacheProvider value={cache}>
      {/* Your component tree. Now you can override Material-UI's styles. */}
    </CacheProvider>
  );
}
```

### Deeper elements

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.
However, the thumb is not the root element of Slider and therefore customization as above will not work.

> You need to use the `componentProps` API of Material-UI, in order to provide custom classNames for the slots.

Reviewer: doesn't match the example, I think that `componentProps` is only good for the Plain CSS example

Author: I've left the `componentsProps` only in the Plain CSS and CSS modules examples...

The following example overrides the `thumb` style of `Slider` in addition to the custom styles on the slider itself.

{{"demo": "pages/guides/interoperability/StyledComponentsDeep.js", "hideToolbar": true}}

**CssModulesSliderDeep.module.css**

```css
.slider {
  color: #20b2aa;
}
.slider:hover {
  color: #2e8b57;
}
.slider .thumb {
  border-radius: 30%;
}
```

**CssModulesSliderDeep.js**

```jsx
import React from 'react';
// webpack, parcel or else will inject the CSS into the page
import styles from './CssModulesSliderDeep.module.css';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';

> export default function PlainCSSSlider() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default function CssModulesSliderDeep() {
```

### Portals

> TODO: fill this section after the portal are implemented with the new styled engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TODO: fill this section after the portal is implemented with the new styled engine.
```

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';
// webpack, parcel or else will inject the CSS into the page
import styles from './CssModulesSlider.module.css';

export default function CssModulesSlider() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <Slider defaultValue={30} className={styles.slider} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### CSS injection order ⚠️

> **Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`, which make Material-UI take precedence over your `<style>`. To remove the need to mark your style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done for the default style engine - emotion:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`, which gives Material-UI precedence over your custom styes. To remove the need to mark your style attributes with **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done for the default style engine - emotion:
```

```jsx
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx, css } from '@emotion/core';
import Slider from '@material-ui/lab/SliderStyled';

export default function EmotionCSS() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} />
      <Slider
        defaultValue={30}
        css={css`
          color: #20b2aa;
          :hover {
            color: #2e8b57;
          }
        `}
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Theme

Material-UI has a rich theme structure that you can leverage for
the color manipulations, the transitions, the media queries, and more.

By using the Material-UI's Provider, the theme will be available for the
context as well (emotion or styled-components, depending on your configuraiton).

We encourage to share the same theme object between Material-UI and your styles.

```jsx
<Slider
  defaultValue={30}
  css={(theme) => css`
    color: ${theme.palette.primary.main};
    :hover {
      color: ${darken(theme.palette.primary.main, 0.2)};
    }
  `}
/>

> ```

Reviewer: Does emotion need a different section to https://deploy-preview-23030--material-ui.netlify.app/guides/interoperability/#theme? Or could we link styled-components as we do for the styled() API?

Author: Not really, let's link the same for simplicity

If you attempt to style the Slider,
you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

> In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2 `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Material-UI, all child elements have an increased specificity of 2: `.parent .child {}`. When writing overrides, you need to do the same.
```
?
